README.md, before:

# Hangman Game - My First Java Project
This repository contains my first-ever Java project, a Hangman game developed during my introductory programming class at Dawson College. It represents my early exploration into Java programming, showcasing fundamental concepts and the thrill of creating an interactive console-based game.

## Concepts Demonstrated
This project demonstrates the following key programming concepts:

- Variables and Data Types: Using strings, integers, and arrays.
- Control Structures: for and while loops for iterative processes and if-else statements for decision-making.
- Randomization: Using java.util.Random to select a random word.
- Input Handling: Using Scanner to accept user input and validate guesses.
- Arrays and Strings: Manipulating characters in a word and tracking guessed letters.
- Game Logic: Implementing conditions for winning, losing, and displaying the game state.

## Tech Stack
- Language: Java
- Runtime: Java SE (JDK 8+)
- Interface: Console / Terminal
- Libraries Used:
- - java.util.Scanner
- - java.util.Random

## How to run locally
### Prerequisities
- Java JDK installed (Java 8 or newer)
- Terminal or Command Prompt
### Steps
1. Clone the repository
```Bash
git clone https://github.com/artembrandt03/Hangman---Java-1-mini-project.git
cd Hangman---Java-1-mini-project/
```
2. Compile the program
```Bash
javac Hangman.java
```
3. Run the game
```Bash
java Hangman
```
The game will start in the terminal and prompt you to guess letters.

## Project Structure
```T
Hangman.java # Entire game logic contained in a single file
```
This project intentionally uses a single Java file, as it was built early in my learning journey before object-oriented structuring was introduced.

## Video Showcase
(low quality due to video compression)

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5239230c-ae83-4146-900a-91d8fcaad3d7

Commit message:

Update README on how to run in github codespaces

README.md, after:

# Hangman Game - My First Java Project
This repository contains my first-ever Java project, a Hangman game developed during my introductory programming class at Dawson College. It represents my early exploration into Java programming, showcasing fundamental concepts and the thrill of creating an interactive console-based game.

## Concepts Demonstrated
This project demonstrates the following key programming concepts:

- Variables and Data Types: Using strings, integers, and arrays.
- Control Structures: for and while loops for iterative processes and if-else statements for decision-making.
- Randomization: Using java.util.Random to select a random word.
- Input Handling: Using Scanner to accept user input and validate guesses.
- Arrays and Strings: Manipulating characters in a word and tracking guessed letters.
- Game Logic: Implementing conditions for winning, losing, and displaying the game state.

## Tech Stack
- Language: Java
- Runtime: Java SE (JDK 8+)
- Interface: Console / Terminal
- Libraries Used:
- - java.util.Scanner
- - java.util.Random

## Demo in Browser (GitHub Codespaces)

You can run this project **directly in your browser** using GitHub Codespaces — no local setup required :)

### Steps
1. Click the green **Code** button at the top of the repository
2. Select **Codespaces**
3. Click **Create codespace on main**
4. Once the environment loads, open the terminal
5. Run the following commands:
```bash
javac Hangman.java
java Hangman
```

## How to run locally
### Prerequisities
- Java JDK installed (Java 8 or newer)
- Terminal or Command Prompt
### Steps
1. Clone the repository
```Bash
git clone https://github.com/artembrandt03/Hangman---Java-1-mini-project.git
cd Hangman---Java-1-mini-project/
```
2. Compile the program
```Bash
javac Hangman.java
```
3. Run the game
```Bash
java Hangman
```
The game will start in the terminal and prompt you to guess letters.

## Project Structure
```T
Hangman.java # Entire game logic contained in a single file
```
This project intentionally uses a single Java file, as it was built early in my learning journey before object-oriented structuring was introduced.

## Video Showcase
(low quality due to video compression)

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5239230c-ae83-4146-900a-91d8fcaad3d7
